<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="i-closed-my-shutters-fast-last-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Closed My Shutters Fast Last Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I closed my shutters fast last night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reluctantly and slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pleading was the purple sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all the lights hung low;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I left my lagging heart outside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within the dark alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard it singing through the gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wordless, anguished tone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon my sleepless couch I lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the tranquil morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came through the silver silences</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring my heart forlorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restoring it with calm caress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto its sheltered bower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While whispering: “Await, await</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your golden, perfect hour.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="footsteps" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Footsteps</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Passing ever, early, late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No fond footsteps seek my gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But down the winding road they wend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To some other journey’s end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet,—I would not have them wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here within my guarded gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Certain footsteps I shall know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for them I listen low!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="oh-night-of-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Oh Night of Love</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh night of love, your rapt ecstatic hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were mine, the languor of their pale perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pervades me, kisses in a fountain-fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surround me,—fetter and consume.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh night of love, your groves of strange content</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Project a thralldom over coming days;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exalted, derelict, and blind I wend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unmindfully along Life’s misty ways.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="autumn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Autumn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Believe me–when I say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That love like yours, at this belated hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Overwhelms me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stills the fount of thought!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I move as one new-born–</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strange to swift transitions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As from my prison door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a blinding sunlight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thralldom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thralldom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Your voice keeps ringing down the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In accents soft and mild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With which you have beguiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And wooed me as a child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your presence bounds my every way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And thrills me in its fold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With phantom hands that hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Like cherished chains of gold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="separation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Separation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Within your pulsing day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There must be little space</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For visions of my face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lure your thoughts away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet, I would have it so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bear alone the pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That saddens love’s refrain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray God you never know!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="loves-miracle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love's Miracle</h2>
			<p>
				<span>So like a boundless, soundless sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The miracle of love to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all the world a rosy dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sailing upon a silver stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While I, a fairy in mid-air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Am dancing, dancing everywhere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hark! do you hear the thunder peal?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I care not what it would reveal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow will be yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I am shivering and gray:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I will not heed the prompter's ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let others answer, I shall sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dance the merrier—away!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll live and live and live—today!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="proving" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Proving</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Were you a leper bathed in wounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And by the world denied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d share your fatal exile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a privilege, with pride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You are the very sun, the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The starlight of my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sounding motif of my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its impetus and goal!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="interim" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Interim</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The days lie dark between our jeweled meetings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like wintry burials.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart bows low before the cheerless hearth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until your voice rings through the gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bids me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wake!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And live!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="good-bye" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Good-Bye</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let’s say “Good-bye”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor wait Love’s latest breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poised now so lightly on the wing of Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While yet within our eyes one fervent gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remains to hallow this, a passing dream:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, yes “Good-bye,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it is best to part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Love’s low light still burns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within the heart!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-paradox" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Paradox</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I know you love me better cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strange as the pyramids of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Responselessly.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I am frail, and spent and weak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With surging torrents that bespeak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A living fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So, like a veil, my poor disguise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is draped to save me from your eyes'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep challenges.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fain would I fling this robe aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from you, in your bosom hide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eternally.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! you love me better cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like frozen pyramids of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unyieldingly?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="how-my-heart-sinks" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">How My Heart Sinks</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How my heart sinks when I behold the sad reflection of my face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wan and wistful wound, with oh, such meagre grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How can you hold me dear withal and conjure charms withdrawn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or does the Autumn twilight hold a charm unknown to dawn?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hold! Do not speak! some day perchance, I'll read the message dire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within the ashes of the flame, the aftermath of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere then perhaps I shall have found the highways of the soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where one may read uncrucified, the blood-words of the scroll.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till then, uphold illusion's veil before my gaze the while</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may gather strength to fuse from agony, a smile!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Time</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Day by day the threads of white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Muliply, Oh! hour-glass!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How passing swift your bright sands pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fain would I hold you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Linger, bide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until these surges shall subside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sweep me forward unto bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! charging sun, I bid you rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Break not your arrow in my breast!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="welt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Welt</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Would I might mend the fabric of my youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which daily flaunts its tatters to my eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would I might compromise awhile with truth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until love's moon, now waxing, wanes and dies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For I would go a further while with you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draing this Cup of Joy so passing fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which meets my parching lips like cooling dew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Ere time has brushed cold fingers through my hair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="review" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Review</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I fear my power impotent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hold you leal and full content,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some hapless look or word perchance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dispels the glamour of romance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble lest some stranger fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arrest you,—cause you to compare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The meagre charms which I possess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With some resplendent loveliness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How far removed from Youth's command</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trembling sceptre in my hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As miserly within the glass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mark Love's fleeting hours pass.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="illusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Illusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! for the veils of my far-away youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shielding my heart from the blaze of the truth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why did I stray from their foldings and grow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the sadness that follows—to know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Impotent atom with desolate gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Treading Life's treacherous, intricate maze—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh for the veils, for the vails of my youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shielding my heart from the blaze of the truth!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="parody" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Parody</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tapestries of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were shining in the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My wishes settled down content</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About you as you stood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I looked into your cryptic eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought I understood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The splendor of your gaudy robe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grew dimmer day by day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wondered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Searched within my soul to seize the mystery.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The answer staggered me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aghast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like one at bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gazed with open eyes of thought upon you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! 'twas true—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mockery, a parody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had come to me—in you!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="delusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Delusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You gave me your hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I held it to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last word, the dear word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul's entity;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cherished it, treasured it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only to find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I held but a gauntlet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I had been blind!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sunset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sunset</h2>
			<p>
				<span>And now—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As one who closes up the house and goes uncaring where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He may forget the scenes of home 'mid foreign climes and air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I bar the chamber of my heart and seal the past within</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wander down the city's road amid the whirr and din.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The long years seem impassable, the morning has no smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With naught behind these barring doors and nothing else worth while,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like some lone pilgrim without hope, I stumble on my way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who lifts no futile plea for sun, but asks for clouds less grey.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="finis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Finis</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I looked death calmly in the face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And placed my hand within his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Come, come, let us away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I have lost the magic key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Opening the portals of desire—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My wishes cumber in the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life is stagnant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my</span>
				<br/>
				<span>heart!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ivy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ivy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which means</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am insufficient</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I need—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something to hold me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or perhaps uphold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am a woman.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There's nothing certain, nothing sure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save sorrow. Fragile happiness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was never fashioned to endure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For joy repels the perfect claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And answers to no certain name;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How furtively we scan the mist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perchance amid the gloom to find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some moments rare and rapture-kist.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="one-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">One Day</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Good-bye dear day of sunshine, rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In flooding torrents pours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its liquid footsteps on my roof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its fingers on my doors.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While I sit tranquilly within</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And tell my beads of joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holding a peace within my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which nothing can destroy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="attar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Attar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fire—tears—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the torture-chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the last maddening turn of the screw—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only thus</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is one precious drop distilled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the attar of rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="youths-progeny" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Youth's Progeny</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh the sad little dreams of the dim yesteryear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lying cold, still and stark in the dust of their bier,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How the heart hurries back, all the long weary way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just to bid them good-night at the close of the day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-wonder" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Wonder</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I wonder—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">as I see them pass unheeded down the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(The women who were once beloved, imperious and gay)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holding with frail, pale hands the cup</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Life's discarded wine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If memories</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are bliss enough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make the dregs—divine!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="values" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Values</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All the pretty baubles spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are not the answer to my need,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These tinseled trappings but beguile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This journeying, while deep within</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A want unspeakable resides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That throbs and throbs unceasingly,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So hungering,—no banquet spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can tempt it, and no golden wine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make it forget: I balance it—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world flies upward in the scale!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Always, unsoothed, unquieted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It aches and aches across the days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sears the nights that sum my life.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="armageddon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Armageddon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the silence and the dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fought with dragons;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was battered, beaten sore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But rose again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On my knees I fought still rising</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my pain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dark I fought with dragons.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease your flowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even now, the dawn appears!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="le-soir" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Le Soir</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mute-lipped—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unquestioning grim-visaged Fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cleave the shadows toward the Western Gate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my lagging heart still holds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mute-arms outstretched</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto earth's gleaming folds.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who knows?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perhaps Hope’s blossoms spray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In lush profusion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er the edge of day!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="treasure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Treasure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What matters though love's dream shall pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since from the throbbing hour-glass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One golden-throated moment prest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its attared incense to my breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Since I have known the purple gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lifts above me—can I deem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The way unlighted—when I go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Encircled by love's afterglow?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="retrospection" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Retrospection</h2>
			<p>
				<span>After all—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>mine is the joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which naught can lessen or destroy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For love has led my flying feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where immortelles are springing sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And everlasting skies of gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are memories, when earth is cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though our future paths should lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Estranged, as star-ways, through the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not look reproof, nor find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within this pass a charge unkind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lightly sorrow shall be met</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I can never know regret.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="springtime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Springtime</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Again it is the vibrant May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bursting buds, the leafing trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fragrant, undulating breeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Call to my heart in subtlest way:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come! come! it is a holiday.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The streamlet with unending song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath its silver veil of mist</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seems flowing, flowing, to some tryst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While I—with inner surges strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Find incomplete the day, and long.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="destiny" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Destiny</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I know my love is seeing me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As restless rivers seek the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the night, across the days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That snare the intervening ways.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know my love is seeking me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Time must seek Eternity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When nights are very still I hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His footsteps, coming, coming near!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="envoys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Envoys</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love calls me tonight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the beat of the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the cold little drops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On my bare window-pane;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calls and calls through the dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a whispered refrain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tapping soft on my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the bare window pane.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-want-to-die-while-you-love-me" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Want to Die While You Love Me</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I want to die while you love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While yet you hold me fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While laughter lies upon my lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lights are in my hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I want to die while you love me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bear to that still bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your kisses—turbulent, unspent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To warm me when I’m dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I want to die while you love me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, who would care to live,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Til love has nothing more to ask</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And nothing more to give.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ecstasy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ecstasy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Not less than this, beloved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This beaming, highmost ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sweeps in royal splendor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across our perfect day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not less than this,—far rather</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That we should say “adieu,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With every rose in Eden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abloom for me and you.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pledge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With kisses I'll awake you love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So tenderly at morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pledges of my fealty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Diunally reborn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We'll thread life's way together love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the fading light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dips softly over western hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll kiss your eyes good-night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="your-eyes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Your Eyes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Your eyes—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark pools, so calm and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A thousand ages in them sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A dreaming world within them lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all my hopes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of paradise!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="amour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Amour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Kiss me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the hours bloom triumphantly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before life's little sun has set</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I am old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day is fleet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I ...</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Am far too passionate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To die!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="finality" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Finality</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When love's triumphant day is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go forward! leave me to the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the coldly staring stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The waiting winter and its blight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For I would never hold the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That mutely quivers to be free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unfurl your restless wings—away!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leave the emptiness to me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In Love</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I lived in Hell the other day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its fires wrapt me angrily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now their horrors fall and fade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like ghosts that memory has made.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I lived in Hell even today,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How sift the fierce flames die away—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Submerged with kisses, I forget,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tears upon my pillows yet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fiction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fiction</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not seek to penetrate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your webbed gauze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor tease my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By queries deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But hold you tenderly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day is evening,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I must cull my flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Ere dark.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dead-days" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dead Days</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dead days of rapture and despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I would your hours exhume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Renew their wildness once again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their rigors and perfume.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="break-break-my-heart" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Break, Break My Heart</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Break, break my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For love is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pale light trails the dying sun—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And night awaits—no hope—no stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hide my scars!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Little King</h2>
			<p>
				<span>From worshipping I now arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stunned and aghast, with open eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the real, the little you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought so gallant, brave and true.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A pity yet is mine, I fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since wherefore comes this falling tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For none among your fawning throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will love you well, nor love you long.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="romance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Romance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I was young</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I used to say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Romance <em>will come</em> riding by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I shall surely smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And play with him awhile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When I grew older</span>
				<br/>
				<span>then I said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Romance <em>may come</em> riding by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wonder shall I smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And play with him awhile?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! I only say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Romance <em>never will</em> come by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I shall never smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has been dead the while!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="falling-gods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Falling Gods</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Confusion, desuetude and gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The travailing of sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell desolation in my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And agony profound;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gods are falling heavily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And for all time to be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never more my heart shall know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shrine to Deity!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="armor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Armor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You cannot hurt me any more</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For I am armored now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I can look into your face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With cool, unfevered brow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tranquil river meets the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My life flows on at rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unurged, untorn, but oh, my God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I love the old way best!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="divide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Divide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Your lightest breath may fan my cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your whisper stir me when you speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The teeming planets play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between your heart—and mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Return</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the pines intoning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though some solitary gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My errant throughts go pattering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About love's ancient tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though no breath of incense rare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lies round the shattered cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A banquet weird, the fragments</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the ghost of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May sup.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-of-the-sinner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song of the Sinner</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Just a bit of ashes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grey, grey ashes—spent—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! how fierce the fires burned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down to this continent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just a bit of ashes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not a single spark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lives in this residuum</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crumbling cold and dark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just a bit of ashes—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the judgment day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I go with my memories—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray, sweet virgin, pray!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="celibacy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Celibacy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where is the love that might have been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flung to the far ends of Earth?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my body stamping around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my body like a hound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leashed and restless—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Biding time!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="offering" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Offering</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I seek no tokens of you dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I only ask to give</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The purple flower of my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And you will let it live.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I ask no fealty or plight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I only pray that you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May find earth's barren places bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Perhaps, because it grew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when for you the final sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Moves toward the darkening West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall be lingering to place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Love's flower on your breast.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="estrangement" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Estrangement</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Some day I shall be dead, and pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which kept me from your feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall be the burden of the song</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My cold lips shall repeat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And some day when you too shall find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A pillow in the sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would you then spurn an hour with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above—where daisies nod?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="recessional" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Recessional</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Consider me a memory—a dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That passed away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or yet, a flower that has blown and shattered—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For passion sleeps, alas, and keeps no vigil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wakens to no conjuring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of orison or tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Consider me a melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That served its simple turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or but the residue of fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That settles in the urn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For love defies pure reasoning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And undeterred flows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within—without</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vassal heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its reasoning—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who knows?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sepulchre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sepulchre</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have mounded the corpse of my sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wreathed it with roses fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That none who may pass on the morrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May know what lies buried there.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="curtain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Curtain</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When one has lived</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tis not so hard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fold the hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To say, "Good-night,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And creep away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind the dark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But 'tis not strange</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heart rebels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When sounds of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ring down the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That was a weary, joyless way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From early dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To setting sun:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How eagerly we trail the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For crumbs of happiness we fend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And struggle, struggle—to the end!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="afterglow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Afterglow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Through you I entered heaven and hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knew rapture and despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I flitted o'er the plains of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scaled each shining stair:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drank deep the waters of content,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drained the cup of gall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was regal and was impotent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was suzerain and thrall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, by Reflection's placid pool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On evening's mellowed brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I smile across the backward way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pledge anew my vow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For every glancing, golden gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I offer gladly—pain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I would give a thousand world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To live it all again!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
