<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="sonnet-to-the-mantled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sonnet to the Mantled</h2>
			<p>
				<span>And they shall rise and cast their mantles by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Erect and strong and visioned, in the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That rings the knell of Curfew o'er the sway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of prejudice—who reels with mortal cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lift no more her leprous, blinded eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reft of the fetters, far more cursed than they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which held dominion o'er human clay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spirit soars aloft where rainbows lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like joyful exiles swift returning home—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rhythmic chanson of their eager feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While voices strange to ecstasy, long dumb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Break forth in major rhapsodies, full sweet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the very star-shine, lo! they come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wearing the bays of victory complete!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sonnet-to-those-who-see-but-darkly" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sonnet to Those Who See But Darkly</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Their gaze uplifting from shoals of despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like phantoms groping enswathed from the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up from miasmic depths, children of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surge to the piping of Hope's dulcet lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Souled like the lily, whose splendors declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God's mazèd paradox—purged of all blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out from the quagmire, unsullied and fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Life holds her arms o'er the festering way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiles, as their faith-sandalled rushes prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slowly the sun rides the marge of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wine to the lips sorely anguished and pale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On, ever on, do the serried ranks sway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Charging the ultimate, rending the veil.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brotherhood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Brotherhood</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come, brothers all!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall we not wend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blind-way of our prison-world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By sympathy entwined?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall we not make</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bleak way for each other's sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Less rugged and unkind?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O let each throbbing heart repeat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faint note of another's beat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lift a chanson for the feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That stumble down life's checkered street.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-me-not-lose-my-dream" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Let Me Not Lose My Dream</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let me not lose my dream, e’en though I scan the veil with eyes unseeing through their glaze of tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me not falter, though the rungs of fortune perish as I fare above the tumult, praying purer air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me not lose the vision, gird me, Powers that toss the worlds, I pray!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hold me, and guard, lest anguish tear my dreams away!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-me-not-hate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Let Me Not Hate</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let me not hate, although the bruising world decries my peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives me no quarter, hounds me while I sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would snuff the candles of my soul and sear my inmost dreamings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let me not hate, though girt by vipers, green and hissing through the dark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fain must love. God help me keep the altar-gleams that flicker wearily, anon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On down the world’s grim night!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="calling-dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Calling Dreams</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The right to make my dreams come true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ask, nay, I demand of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shall fate’s deadly contraband</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Impede my steps, nor countermand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Too long my heart against the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has beat the dusty years around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, at length, I rise, I wake!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stride into the morning-break!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="desire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Desire</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ope! ye everlasting doors, unto my soul’s demand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would go forward, fare beyond these dusty boulevards,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faint lights and fair allure me all insistently</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I must stand within the halls resplendent, of my dreams.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sorrow-singers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sorrow Singers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hear their viol-voices ringing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Down the corridor of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they lift their twilight faces</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a mist of falling tears!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Cross</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All day the world’s mad mocking strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The venomed prick of probing knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The baleful, subtle leer of scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That rims the world from morn to morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While reptile-visions writhe and creep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the very arms of sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To quench the fitful burnished gleams:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A crucifixion in my dreams!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prejudice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prejudice</h2>
			<p>
				<span>These fell miasmic rings of mist, with ghoulish menace bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like noose-horizons tightening my little world around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They still the soaring will to wing, to dance, to speed away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fling the soul insurgent back into its shell of clay:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath incrusted silences, a seething Etna lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire of whose furnaces may sleep—<em>but never dies!</em></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="laocoon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Laocoön</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This spirit-choking atmosphere</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With deadly serpent-coil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Entwines my soaring-upwardness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And chains me to the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’er I seek with eager stride</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To gain yon gleaming height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These noisesome fetters coil aloft</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And snare my buoyant flight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, why these aspirations bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These rigours of desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That surge within so ceaselessly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like living tongues of fire?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And why these glowing forms of hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That scintillate and shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If naught of all that burnished dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Can evermore be mine?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It cannot be, fate does not mock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And man’s untoward decree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall not forever thus confine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My life’s entirety,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My every fibre fierce rebels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Against this servile role,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all my being broods to break</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This death-grip from my soul!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="moods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Moods</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My heart is pregnant with a great despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With much beholding of my people’s care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid blinded prejudice and nurtured wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exhaling wantonly the days along:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mark Faith’s fragile craft of cheering light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tossing imperiled on the sea of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, enanguished, comes my heart’s low cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“God, God! I crave to learn the reason why!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again, in spirit loftily I soar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With winged vision through earth’s outer door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In such an hour, it is mine to see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In frowning fortune smiling destiny!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hegira" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hegira</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, black man, why do you northward roam, and leave all the farm lands bare?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is your house not warm, tightly thatched from storm, and a larder replete your share?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And have you not schools, fit with books and tools the steps of your young to guide?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then what do you seek, in the north cold and bleak, ’mid the whirl of its teeming tide?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have toiled in your cornfields, and parched in the sun, I have bowed ’neath your load of care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have patiently garnered your bright golden grain, in season of storm and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a smile I have answered your glowering gloom, while my wounded heart quivering bled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trailing mute in your wake, as your rosy dawn breaks, while I curtain the mound of my dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though my children are taught in the schools you have wrought, they are blind to the sheen of the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the brand of your hand, casts a pall o’er the land, that enshadows the gleam of the eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sons, deftly sapped of the brawn-hood of man, self-rejected and impotent stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My daughters, unhaloed, unhonored, undone, feed the lust of a dominant land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would not remember, yet could not forget, how the hearts beating true to your own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve tortured, and wounded, and filtered their blood ’till a budding Hegira has blown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unstrange is the pathway to Calvary’s hill, which I wend in my dumb agony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up its perilous height, in the pale morning light, to dissever my own from the tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And so I’m away, where the sky-line of day sets the arch of its rainbow afar,<br/></span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the land of the north, where the symbol of worth sets the broad gates of combat ajar!<br/></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-passing-of-the-ex-slave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Passing of the Ex-Slave</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Swift melting into yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tortured hordes of ebon-clay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more is heard the plaintive strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rhythmic chaunting of their pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their mounded bodies dimly rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fill the gulf of sacrifice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er their silent hearts below</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mantled millions softly go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some few remaining still abide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gnarled sentinels of time and tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now mellowed by a chastened glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which lighter hearts will never know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Winding into the silent way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spent with the travail of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So royal in their humble might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These uncrowned Pilgrims of the Night!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-octoroon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Octoroon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One drop of midnight in the dawn of life’s pulsating stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marks her an alien from her kind, a shade amid its gleam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forevermore her step she bends insular, strange, apart—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And none can read the riddle of her wildly warring heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stormy current of her blood beats like a mighty sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the man-wrought iron bars of her captivity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For refuge, succor, peace and rest, she seeks that humble fold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose every breath is kindliness, whose hearts are purest gold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="aliens" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Aliens</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(To You—Everywhere! Dedicated)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>They seem to smile as others smile, the masquerader’s art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conceals them, while, in verity, they’re eating out their heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Betwixt the two contending stones of crass humanity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They lie, the fretted fabric of a dual dynasty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A single drop, a sable strain debars them from their own—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The others—fold them furtively, but God! they are alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blown by the fickle winds of fate far from the traveled mart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To die, when they have quite consumed the morsel of their heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When man shall lift his lowered eyes to meet the moon of truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall break the shallow shell of pride and wax in ways of ruth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He cannot hate, for love shall reign untrammelled in the soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While peace shall spread a rainbow o’er the earth from pole to pole.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="concord" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Concord</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nor shall I in sorrow repine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But offer a paean of praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the infinite God of my days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who marshals the pivoting spheres</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the intricate maze of the years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who loosens the luminous flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lightens the purlieus of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not in sorrow repine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To break the eternal Amen!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The mother soothes her mantled child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With incantation sad and wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A deep compassion brims her eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stills upon her lips, the sigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her thoughts are leaping down the years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er branding bars, through seething tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her heart is sandaling his feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adown the world’s corroding street.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, with a start she dons a smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His tender yearnings to beguile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And only God will ever know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wordless measure of her woe.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="maternity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Maternity</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Proud?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps—and yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cannot say with surety</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I am happy thus to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Responsible for this young life’s embarking.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is he not thrall to prevalent conditions?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does not the day loom dark apace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To weave its cordon of disgrace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around his lifted throat?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is not this mezzotint enough and surfeit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For such prescience?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, did I dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Recall the pulsing life I gave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fold him in the kindly grave!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Proud?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps—could I but ever so faintly scan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The broad horizon of a man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swept fair for his dominion—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So hesitant and half-afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I view this babe of sorrow!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="black-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Black Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Don’t knock at my door, little child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cannot let you in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know not what a world this is</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of cruelty and sin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wait in the still eternity</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until I come to you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world is cruel, cruel, child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cannot let you in!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Don’t knock at my heart, little one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cannot bear the pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of turning deaf-ear to your call</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Time and time again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know the monster men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Inhabiting the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be still, be still, my precious child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I must not give you birth!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="one-of-the-least-of-these-my-little-one" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">"One of the Least of These, My Little One"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The infant eyes look out amazed upon the frowning earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A stranger, in a land now strange, child of the mantled-birth;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Waxing, he wonders more and more; the scowling grows apace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A world, behind its barring doors, reviles his ebon face:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet from this maelstrom issues forth a God-like entity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That loves a world all loveless, and smiles on Calvary!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="shall-i-say-my-son-youre-branded" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shall I Say, "My Son, You're Branded?"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I say, “My son, you’re branded in this country’s pageantry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By strange subtleties you’re tethered, and no forum sets you free?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I mark the young lights fading through your soul-enchannelled eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the dusky pall of shadows screen the highway of your sky?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or shall I, with love prophetic, bid you dauntlessly arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spurn the handicap that clogs you, taking what the world denies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bid you storm the sullen fortress wrought by prejudice and wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a faith that shall not falter, in your heart and on your tongue!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Boy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I hear you singing happily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My boy of tarnished mien,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifting your limpid, trustful gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In innocence serene.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A thousand javelins of pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Assault my heaving breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I behold the storm of years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That beat without your nest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O sing, my lark, your matin song</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of joyous rhapsody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Distil the sweetness of the hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In gladsome ecstasy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For time awaits your buoyant flight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the bar of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing, sing your song, my bonny lark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before it melts in tears!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="guardianship" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Guardianship</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That dusky child upon your knee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is breath of God’s eternity;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Direct his vision to the height—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let naught obscure his royal right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Although the highways to renown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are iron-barred by fortune’s frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis his to forge the master-key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That wields the locks of destiny!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="utopia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Utopia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>God grant you wider vision, clearer skies, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With morning’s rosy kisses on your brow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May your wild yearnings know repose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And storm-clouds break to smiles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As you sweep on with spreading wings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto a waiting sunset!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Little Son</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The very acme of my woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The pivot of my pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My consolation, and my hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deferred, but not denied.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The substance of my every dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The riddle of my plight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The very world epitomized</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In turmoil and delight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="benediction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Benediction</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Go forth, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Winged by my heart’s desire!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great reaches, yet unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Await</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your possession.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I may not, if I would,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Retrace the way with you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My pilgrimage is through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But life is calling you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fare high and far, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A new day has begun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy star-ways must be won!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="credo" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Credo</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I believe in the ultimate justice of Fate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the races of men front the sun in their turn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That each soul holds the title to infinite wealth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fee to the will as it masters itself;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the heart of humanity sounds the same tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In impious jungle, or sky-kneeling fane.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I believe that the key to the life-mystery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lies deeper than reason and further than death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I believe that the rhythmical conscience within</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is guidance enough for the conduct of men.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="promise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Promise</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Through the moil and the gloom they have issued</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the steps of the upwinding hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the sweet, dulcet pipes of tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In their preluding rhapsodies trill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a thud comes a stir in the bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As there steals on the sight from afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through a break of a cloud’s coiling shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gleam of a bright morning star!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-suppliant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Suppliant</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long have I beat with timid hands upon life’s leaden door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Praying the patient, futile prayer my fathers prayed before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet I remain without the close, unheeded and unheard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never to my listening ear is borne the waited word.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soft o’er the threshold of the years there comes this counsel cool:<br/></span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strong demand, contend, prevail; the beggar is a fool!<br/></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hope</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Frail children of sorrow, dethroned by a hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadows are flecked by the rose sifting through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world has its motion, all things pass away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No night is omnipotent, there must be day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The oak tarries long in the depth of the seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But swift is the season of nettle and weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abide yet awhile in the mellowing shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rise with the hour for which you were made.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cycle of seasons, the tidals of man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Revolve in the orb of an infinite plan.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We move to the rhythm of ages long done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each has his hour—to dwell in the sun!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cosmopolite" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cosmopolite</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Not wholly this or that,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But wrought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of alien bloods am I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A product of the interplay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of traveled hearts.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Estranged, yet not estranged, I stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All comprehending;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From my estate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I view earth’s frail dilemma;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scion of fused strength am I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All understanding,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor this nor that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Contains me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How deftly does the gardener blend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This rose and that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bud a new creation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More gorgeous and more beautiful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than any parent portion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I trace within my warring blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tributary sources,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They potently commingle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sweep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With new-born forces!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="perspective" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Perspective</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Some day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall be glad that it was mine to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A dark fore-runner of a race burgeoning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I then shall know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The secret of life’s Calvary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bless the thorns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That wound me!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="when-i-rise-up" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When I Rise Up</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I rise above the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And look down on the things that fetter me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I beat my wings upon the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or tranquil lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surge after surge of potent strength</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like incense comes to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I rise up above the earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And look down upon the things that fetter me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="faith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Faith</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The faint lose faith</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When in the tomb their all is laid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there returns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No echoing of weal or woe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strong hope on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They see the clods close over head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grass grow green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No word is said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little world within the world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are we,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daily our hearts’ high yearnings fade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are buried!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New ones are made,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are crucified!</span>
				<br/>
				<span><em>And yet</em>—</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="we-face-the-future" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">We Face the Future</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The hour is big with sooth and sign, with errant men at war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While blood of alien, friend, and foe imbues the land afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we, with sable faces pent, move with the vanguard line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shod with a faith that Springtime keeps, and all the stars opine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="soldier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Soldier</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Though I should weep until the judgment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How would it serve—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brave men are fighting, women speed them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of crucial conflict!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My son, sometimes it seems I’d rather hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You safe beneath my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than send you forth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But lo! The sun is red and weaker children go!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I should weep until the judgment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How would it serve!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll close my eyes and smile, O Son of Mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your cause is kingly!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Step proud and confident, worthy your mother;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be firm and brave, O Son of Mine, be strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For terror waxeth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speed swift away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I should weep until the judgment . . .</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="homing-braves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Homing Braves</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s music in the measured tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those returning from the dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like scattered flowers from a plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lately crimson, with the slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more the sound of shuffled feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall mark the poltroon on the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shifting, sodden, downcast eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reveal the man afraid to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall have paid full, utterly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The price of peace across the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, with uplifted glance, they come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To claim a kindly welcome home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nor shall the old-time daedal sting</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of prejudice, their manhood wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor heights, nor depths, nor living streams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand in the pathway of their dreams!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="taps" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Taps</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They are embosomed in the sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In still and tranquil leisure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lives they’ve cast like trifles down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To serve their country’s pleasure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nor bugle call, nor mother’s voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor moody mob’s unreason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall break their solace and repose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through swiftly changing season.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O graves of men who lived and died</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Afar from life’s high pleasures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fold them in tenderly and warm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With manifold fond measures.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Peace on a thousand hills and dales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peace in the hearts of men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While kindliness reclaims the soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where bitterness has been.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The night of strife is drifting past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The storm of shell has ceased,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Disrupted is the cordon fell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet charity released.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forth from the shadow, swift we come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrought in the flame together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All men as one beneath the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In brotherhood forever.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Question</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where are the brave men, where are the strong men?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pygmies rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spawn the earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weak-kneed, weak-hearted, and afraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid to face the counsel of their timid hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid to look men squarely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down they gaze—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fatal fascination</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down, down—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the whirling maggot sands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of prejudice.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-initiate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Initiate</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The woes of flesh are naught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To one who knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The agony of soul!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twere but the thud of wind and rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the roof.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The woes of flesh are naught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To one who knows!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bondage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bondage</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Many cages round me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bar on bar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand grim, forbidding!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ghostly pressures</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clutch my heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gaze with eyes unseeing—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whereunto may I wander free?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas, alas!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My garden walks lie inwardly!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="resolution" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Resolution</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With but one life full certified,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that of every gleam denied</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My portion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Close to the unrelenting sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E'en as my fathers dumbly trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I've slumbered;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now a surging, wild unrest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uproots the poppies from my breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My soul awake, erect! anew!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I stand and face the star-swept blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swear to make my dreams come true!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eclipse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eclipse</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Aflounder the uncompassed darkness of doubt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In search of the path to the goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lies at the end of our transient day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ultimate bourne of the soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I grasp into nothingness, feebly essay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To clasp but a willow, a stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grope through the stepless, unechoing gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unanswered, unsuccored, alone!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="why" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Why</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The verdure sleeps in winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Awakes with April rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun swings low—’tis night—ascends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lo! 'tis morn again:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world spins on triumphant</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across a trackless sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man seeks evermore in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The primal reason why.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O whither are we rushing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wherefrom were we torn?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We breathe from out the silences,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And breathless, back are borne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Deep in the soul are voices</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Returning this reply:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It took a God to make us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only God can answer why!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="husks" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Husks</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Forever and forevermore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the heights, the deeps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spurred by an ever-flaming zeal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That slumbers not, nor sleeps—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We chase the furtive form of fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beyond the edge of dusk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bear within our arms at length,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An empty mocking, husk!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-watcher" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Watcher</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The long, grim years with iron tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Move down the shuttered isle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of time's unrecking labyrinth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Paved with forgotten dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I, a feather in their wake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gaze long and tremblingly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into these sunless corridors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Praying the light to break!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-vanished-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Vanished Road</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We're wending the trail of the vanishing road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a song and a shout, just to lighten the load,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lies in the heart, filled with queries and cares,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For never a traveler knows where he fares.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But on with a jest, and rollicksome cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With laughter that leaps, as a veil, for the tear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world's weary caravan finds that abode</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lies at the end of the vanishing road.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="service" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Service</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When we count out our gold at the end of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And have filtered the dross that has cumbered the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, what were the hold of our treasury then</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save the love we have shown to the children of men?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-martyred" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Martyred</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O sacrificial throng whose lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Build up the yawning deeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er which we pass reflectively</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To broader lights and sweeps.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Know, that we hold with reverence</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The signal price you paid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all our trophies, one by one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon your bier are laid.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-john-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To John Brown</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We lift a song to you across the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which bears through travailing the seed you spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In terror's morning, flung with fingers red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In blood of tyrants, who debarred the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Freedom's dawning. Hearken to the lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chanted by dusky millions, soft and mellow-keyed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In minor measure, Martyr of the Freed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A song of memory across the day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Truth cannot perish though the earth erase</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The royal signals, leaving not a trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And time still burgeoneth the fertile seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though he is crucified who wrought the deed:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Alleghanies, fold him to your breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the judgment! Sentinel his rest!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-abraham-lincoln" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Abraham Lincoln</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Within the temple of our heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your sacred memory dwells apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where ceaselessly a censor swings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alight with fragrant offerings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor time, nor tide, nor circumstance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can dim this grand remembrance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the blood of Afric hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beats in one mighty tide—for you!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-william-stanley-braithwaite" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To William Stanley Braithwaite</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When time has rocked the present age to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lighter hearts are lilting to the sway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rhythmic poesy's enhanced lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Recurring sequences shall fitly keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your fame eternal, as they lightly sweep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aside the curtain to that potent day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you in primal fervor led the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto Apollo's narrow winding steep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None shall forget your travail, utter, sore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That oped the golden avenue of song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, like a knight, so errantly you bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mantled children valiantly along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their homage as a rising incense sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall permeate the heavens at your feet!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-w-e-b-dubois-scholar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. E. B.</abbr> DuBois—Scholar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Grandly isolate as the god of day—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blazing an orbit through the dank and gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of misty morning, far and fair you loom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flooding the dimness with your golden ray,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cheering the mantled on the thorn-set way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Teaching of Faith and Hope o'er the tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where both, though buried, spring to newer bloom—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strengthened and sweet from the mound of decay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soft! strains of Sanctus we lift on the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere Nunc Dimittus at last shall be sung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing we our Sanctus to fitly declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blessings that well up from hearts sorely wrung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lead, lead us on o'er the furthermost stair—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Light of our impotence! Joy of our tongue!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-ridgely-torrence-playwright" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Ridgely Torrence—Playwright</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All hail! fair vistas break upon the view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gates swing wide and free with clanging sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoice! a mighty champion is found,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Son of the morning, prescient and true.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the threshold of a cycle new</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stands, and sentinels its virgin ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seer in his poet-visioning profound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Presaging vaster reaches—skies more blue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lifting their misty glances to the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The prismic children pass the erstwhile bars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exultant, swiftly, boundingly they stray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awhile forgetful of deep, hidden scars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus, as a golden legend time shall tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of him who wrought so mightily and well!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-richard-r-wright-instructor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Richard <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R.</abbr> Wright—Instructor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Son of a race, whose dusky visage shows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heel of fortune, those who walk unfree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though cradled in the hold of liberty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose shackled spirit every gamut knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Hate's cadenza, through whose warm blood flows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The royal ransom of love's dynasty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scion of these, he strides to meet his foes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Erect, unbending, note his sable brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rugged furrows where deep feelings plough,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The step of vigor and the noble air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The subtle halo of his wintry hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up from the furnace of the Earth's red sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man is fashioned for the years to be!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-samuel-coleridge-taylor-upon-hearing-his" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Samuel Coleridge Taylor, Upon Hearing His</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Strange to a sensing motherhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loved as a toy—not understood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Child of a dusky father, bold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frail little captive, exiled, cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oft when the brooding planets sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You through their drowsy empires creep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flinging your arms through their empty space,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking the breast of an unknown face.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-emilie-bigelow-hapgood-philanthropist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Emilie Bigelow Hapgood—Philanthropist</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Far from the seried ranks you sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Firm in your own believing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that frail brotherhood, who stray</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sore anguishing, sore grieving.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such hands as yours, adown the years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Enchain a faith unbroken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They stay the dreary waste of tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lift to Hope a token!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-henry-lincoln-johnson-lawyer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Henry Lincoln Johnson—Lawyer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Quite firmly did you stand, and unafraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before that haughty bar that sought to hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You fettered, lest you strengthen and grow bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To break a clearing through that fetid glade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which their benighted prejudice had made;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They taunted you with darkling hints of gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Preferring you were bought as you had sold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They weaved their webs like spiders in the shade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But as a giant in the falling night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of storm, you forged afore with ruthless tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To offer up your heart's blood in the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgetting self, unmindful, unafraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor pausing until thrice acclaimed the right</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rally in the tents of those you led.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-mary-church-terrell-lecturer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Mary Church Turrell—Lecturer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A pioneer, she blazed a trail of light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through murky shadows, with a lithesome tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto those forums, where Hope's beams are shed:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Straight through the mighty cordon of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rapt with a vision, soul-born, clear and bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving the South of frigid wrong, she sped</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the North, where hearts glow warm instead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A people's tragedy to there recite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hope's liquid pipings lift their tender lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Morning is waking, flushed with rosy gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night with its shadow winds with yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adown the world-way as an inky stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seed time and harvest deftly interplay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Life's fruition is its vital dream!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-may-howard-jackson-sculptor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To May Howard Jackson—Sculptor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You saw the vision in the face of clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fixed it through the magic of a hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Obedient unto the will's command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In forms impervious to Time's decay:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Historian of bloods that interplay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Confusedly within a cryptic land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've chiseled, and your work of art shall stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gem the archives of a better day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alone, far from the touch of kindred mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've mounted with a grim, determined zeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despite environment austere, unkind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or frozen-fingers clenched to your appeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've held the ardor of your first ideal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Robed in a queenly majesty, resigned.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-memory-of-inez-milholland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Memory of Inez Milholland</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Folded in silent veils of sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You calmly rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For God hath spoken, should we weep?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He knoweth best.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But rather let us garner still</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While yet we may,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And meet you in His Holy Hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On that Great Day!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-atlanta-university-its-founders-and-teachers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Atlanta University—Its Founders and Teachers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Pass down the aisle of buried years to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stand uncovered in that holy place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where noble structures lift their hallowed height</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath a bending Heaven's chaste embrace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fruit of those who scorned the path of ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To buckle on the armaments of care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like to the Son of Man Himself, were these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who gave themselves for brother men—less fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Before the blinding footlights of to-day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We man our parts within Life's tragic play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full mindful of the earnest love and care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That keeps eternal watch and vigil there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor do they need fair monuments and scrolls—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their memories are deathless in our souls.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
