<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-heart-of-a-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Heart of a Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The heart of a woman goes forth with the dawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As a lone bird, soft winging, so restlessly on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afar o’er life’s turrets and vales does it roam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the wake of those echoes the heart calls home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The heart of a woman falls back with the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And enters some alien cage in its plight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tries to forget it has dreamed of the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While it breaks, breaks, breaks on the sheltering bars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dreams-of-the-dreamer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dreams of the Dreamer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The dreams of the dreamer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are life-drops that pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The break in the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the soul’s hour-glass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The songs of the singer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are tones that repeat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cry of the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Till it ceases to beat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gossamer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gossamer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The peerless boon of innocence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The first in nature’s list,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is fading, ere the rising sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The world awake has kist.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The early dew upon the grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The purity of morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glint that lies in virgin cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Frail cobwebs⁠—of the dawn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sympathy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sympathy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My joy leaps with your ecstasy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sympathy divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The smiles that wreathe upon your lips.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Find sentinels on mine:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your lightest sigh I’m echoing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I tremble with your pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all your tears are falling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In my heart like bitter rain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="contemplation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Contemplation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We stand mute!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No words can paint such fragile imagery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those prismic gossamers that roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond the sky-line of the soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We stand mute!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dead-leaves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dead Leaves</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The breaking dead leaves ’neath my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A plaintive melody repeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Recalling shattered hopes that lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As relics of a bygone sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again I thread the mazy past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back where the mounds are scattered fast⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! foolish tears, why do you start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>To break of dead leaves in the heart?</em>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dawn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dawn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Trailing night’s sand-sifted stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rainbows sweep, as day unbars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fragrant essences of morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bathe humanity⁠—new-born!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="elevation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Elevation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There are highways in the soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Heights like pyramids that rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far beyond earth-veilèd eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweeping through the barless skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the line where daylight dies⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are highways in the soul!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I rest me deep within the wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drawn by its silent call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far from the throbbing crowd of men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On nature’s breast I fall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My couch is sweet with blossoms fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A bed of fragrant dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soft upon my ear there falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The lullaby of streams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tumult of my heart is stilled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within this sheltered spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep in the bosom of the wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forgetting, and⁠—forgot!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="whither" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Whither?</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Minutes swiftly throb and pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shadows cross the dial-glass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speeding ever to some call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weary world and shadows, all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down the closing aisles of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tramping footsteps die away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no tidings thread the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the hushed and silent tomb.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="quest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Quest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The phantom happiness I sought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er every crag and moor;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I paused at every postern gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And knocked at every door;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In vain I searched the land and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">E’en to the inmost core,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The curtains of eternal night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Descend⁠—my search is o’er.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mate</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Our separate winding ways we trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the highways, unto God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unbonded by the clasp of hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a vow⁠—we understand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Estranged for aye, the fusing kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Omnipotent, we bide in this⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>They need no trammeling of bars</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Whose souls were welded with the stars.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="emblems" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Emblems</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A wordless kiss, a stifled sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A trembling lip, a downcast eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">“Alas,” they say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">“A-day, a-day,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cruse has failed, the lamp must die!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mirrored" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mirrored</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When lone and solitaire within your chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With lamp unlit, as evening shades unroll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you reveal the trail your thoughts are taking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I then may read the riddle of your soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For it is then, the tired mind unveiling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drifts stark into the holy after-glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within the hour of quiet meditation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tidal thoughts, like limpid waters, flow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="repulse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Repulse</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nobody cares when I am glad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I beat upon their hearts in glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Drink, drink joy’s brimming cup with me,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All echoless, my ecstasy⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody cares when I am glad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nobody cares when I am sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whene’er I seek compassion’s breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I falter wounded from my quest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back! back into my heart, sore prest⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody cares when I am sad.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="query" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Query</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Is she the sage who will not sip</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cup love presses to her lip?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or she who drinks the mad cup dry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And turns with smiling face⁠—to die?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pent</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The rain is falling steadily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the thirsty earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While dry-eyed, I remain, and calm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid my own heart’s dearth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Break! break!! ye flood-gates of my tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All pent in agony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rain, rain! upon my scorching soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And flood it as the sea!!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pages-from-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pages from Life</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Not for your tender eyes that shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor for your red lips pulsing wine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love you, dear: your soul divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In sweet captivity, holds mine!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>The tender eyes have lost their glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flagons of the lips run low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The autumn trembles in the air⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>A woman passes solitaire!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="recall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Recall</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Winter⁠—aback sweeps the inward eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fleet o’er the trail to a rose-wreathed sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Girt by a cordon of dreams I dwell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep in the heart of the old-time spell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Almost, the tones of your whispered word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost! the thrill that your dear lips stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost!! that wild pulsing throb again⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost!!!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(’Tis winter, the falling rain).</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gethsemane" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gethsemane</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Into the garden of sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some day we all must roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If not to-day, then to-morrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bow ’neath its purple dome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out from the musk-laden banqueting halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doffing our mirth-spangled vestments like thralls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly we wend to Gethsemane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the hour that sorrow calls!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="impelled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Impelled</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Athwart the sky the great sun sails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through aeons thus, the daylight trails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man, living breath of the sod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beholding, in his heart knows God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Throughout the night’s long brooding deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Earth’s trustful children die-to-sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with the whisperings of morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awake, unto the day, new-born.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mystery of earth untold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great infinite, none behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forge ever new the spiral chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Revolving man to God again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eventide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eventide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The silence of the brooding night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enfolds me with its eerie light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lie upon its shadowed breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pilgrim, wearying for rest</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nightfall! thy sable curtains steep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My very soul in solace deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God sends thee with thy soothing balms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may falter to thy arms.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thrall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thrall</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fragile, tiny, just a sprite,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holding me a thrall bedight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stronger than a giant’s wand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Serves the word of your command.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Out from rushing worlds, though low</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should you whisper, I would know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would answer, though the breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be the gateway unto death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="youth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Youth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The dew is on the grasses, dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blush is on the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swift across our dial-youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shifting shadow goes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The primrose moments, lush with bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exhale and fade away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life may renew the Autumn time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But nevermore the May!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a soft rosy glow o’er the whole world to-day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a freshness and fragrance that trembles in May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a lilt in the music that vibrates and thrills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the uttermost glades to the tops of the hills.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! I am so happy, my heart is so light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shades and the shadows have vanished from sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This wild pulsing gladness throbs like a sweet pain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O soul of me, drink, ere night falleth again!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="posthumous" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Posthumous</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of what avail the tardy showers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the famished summer flowers?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All in vain the rain-drops cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dead things never make reply.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Life’s belated cup of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woo the weary lips to kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the singing is a sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pulses quivering, to die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="omega" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Omega</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The fragile fabric of our dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drifts as a feather down life’s stream⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The long defile of empty days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grim silhouetted, mock my gaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though oft escapes the stifled sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A desert ever broods my eye⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since you have utterly forgot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God grant that I remember not!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tears-and-kisses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tears and Kisses</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There are tears sweet, refreshing like dewdrops that rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are tears far too deep for the lakes of the eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There are kisses like thistledown, fitfully sped,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are kisses that live in the hearts of the dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="isolation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Isolation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Alone! yes, evermore alone⁠—isolate each his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though hand is echoing to hand vain sophistries of clay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within that veilèd, mystic place where bides the inmost soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No twain shall pass while tides shall wax, nor changing seasons roll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Enisled, apart our pilgrimage, despite the arms that twine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despite the fusing kiss that wields the magic charm of wine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despite the interplay of sigh, the surge of sympathy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We tread in solitude remote, the trail of destiny!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="where" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Where</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I called you through the silent night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the brooding deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sought you in the shadowland</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From out the world⁠—asleep;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No answer echoed to my call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And now my way I thread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the lowly mounds that rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Among the silent dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though voiceless, you will hear my call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your soul will heed my cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will rise, and mock the prison where</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your bones recumbent lie.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tired" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tired</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I’m tired, days and nights to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drag on in slow monotony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With not a single star in sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lend a gleam of cheering light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m tired, there are none to care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I am drifting to despair:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O shadows! take me to your breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I am tired⁠—I would rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="smothered-fires" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Smothered Fires</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A woman with a burning flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep covered through the years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With ashes. Ah! she hid it deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And smothered it with tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sometimes a baleful light would rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From out the dusky bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then the woman hushed it quick</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To slumber on, as dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At last the weary war was done</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tapers were alight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with a sigh of victory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She breathed a soft⁠—good-night!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-measure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Measure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fierce is the conflict⁠—the battle of eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sure and unerring, the wordless replies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Challenges flash from their ambushing caves⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men, by their glances, are masters or slaves.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="inevitably" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Inevitably</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s nothing in the world that clings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As does a memory that stings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While happy hours fade and pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like shadows in a looking-glass.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="modulations" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Modulations</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The petals of the faded rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Commingle silently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One with the atoms of the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One with the chaliced sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The essence of my fleeting youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Caught in the web of time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exhales within the springing flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or breathes in love sublime.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="memory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Memory</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love’s roses I gathered, all dewy, in May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart holds the breath of their attar to-day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, while the blasts of the winter winds ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear not the tempest, I’m dreaming of Spring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rhythm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rhythm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, my fancy teems with a world of dreams⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They revolve in a glittering fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How they twirl and go with the tunes that flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the breath of my soul-strung lyre.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gilead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gilead</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Walk within thy own heart’s temple, child, and rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What you seek abides forever in thy breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Closer than thy folded arm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the soul-renewing-balm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walk within thy own heart’s temple, child, and rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="foredoom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Foredoom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her life was dwarfed, and wed to blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her very days were shades of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her every dream was born entombed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her soul, a bud⁠—that never bloomed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wheneer-i-lift-my-eyes-to-bliss" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Whene’er I Lift My Eyes to Bliss</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Whene’er I lift my eyes to bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I stagger blind with pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afar into the folding night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The silence, and the rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whene’er I feel the urge of Spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A throbbing, unknown woe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enfolds me; I am desolate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When love is calling low.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="despair" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Despair</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The curtains of twilight are drawn in the west</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And vespers are sweet on the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While I, through my leafless, ungarlanded way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But pause at the gates of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Good-bye to the hopes that were never fulfilled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Good-bye to the fond dreams that failed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Good-bye to my dead that has never been born,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Good-bye to love’s ship that ne’er sailed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="when-i-am-dead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When I Am Dead</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I am dead, withhold, I pray, your blooming legacy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the willows did I bide, and they should cover me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I longed for light and fragrance, and I sought them far and near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, it would grieve me utterly, to find them on my bier!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="supreme" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Supreme</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The fairest lips are those we kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With greatest ecstasy and bliss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brightest eyes, are those that shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unchangingly through changing time;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The greatest love is that we know.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When life is just an afterglow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-quest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In Quest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With the first blush of morning, my soul is awing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Away o’er the phantom lands free, wandering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I seek thee in hamlet, in woodland, and hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till night-shades, enfolding my tired heart, fall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet ever and alway, like the thrush in a tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart lifts its preluding love-song to thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I call through the days, through the long weary years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slumber at night-fall, refreshed by my tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="recompense" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Recompense</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Roses after rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pleasure after pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happiness will soothe the sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiles await the tear-dimmed eye⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bloom will follow blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daylight trails the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is sweeter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is deeper</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the heart’s twilight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poetry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Poetry</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Behold! the living thrilling lines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That course the blood like madd’ning wines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leap with scintillating spray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the guards of ecstasy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flame that lights the lurid spell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Springs from the soul’s artesian well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its fairy filament of art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Entwines the fragments of a heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="what-need-have-i-for-memory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">What Need Have I for Memory?</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What need have I for memory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When not a single flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has bloomed within life’s desert</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For me, one little hour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What need have I for memory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose burning eyes have met</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The corse of unborn happiness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Winding the trail regret?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fantasy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Fantasy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I breathe the lyric of my love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the twilit way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gentle echoes bear it on</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beyond the edge of day:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All vibrant is the melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The silences repeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My song is but my longing heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pulsated with its beat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It winds amid the dusky ways</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where far mysteries shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find amid God’s trackless space,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One answering song to mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="souvenir" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Souvenir</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A little hour of sunshine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A little while of joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We winnow in our harvesting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From all the world’s alloy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None, none, are so benighted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who journey up life’s hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But have some treasured memory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which lives all vibrant still.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="illusions" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Illusions</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Who hath not built his castles in the free and open air?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who hath not dreamed his rosy dreams, more fair than all the fair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who hath not seen his castles fall, all scattered to the ground?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who bears his dream unshattered, from the dream-land where they’re found?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="transpositions" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Transpositions</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Smiles do not always echo cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor tear-drops measure grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For sorrow seeks a gilded mask,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And joy in tears, relief.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-willow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Willow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When life is young, without a care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Alone we walk, and free:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world, a splendid merry round</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of rhythmic melody.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Before the end, grim sorrow calls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into each mortal ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When friendship fades to memories,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And love lies in its bier.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, then it is that sympathy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is holden close and dear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, then life’s consolation comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Commingled with a tear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="devastation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Devastation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O love, you have shorn me, and rifled my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have torn down the shrine from the innermost part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through it now rushes a grief, sadly-wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That breaks as the plaint of a sorrowing child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="springtide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Springtide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All deep there stirs the throb of Spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its vital pulse I’m answering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift to its dominant I merge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One with its undulating surge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart awakes to virile tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And breaks⁠—unanswered, and alone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gloamtide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gloamtide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The shades of the gloaming around me are stealing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The lure of the dusk through the silences call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While blossoming incense comes mutely appealing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And choiring wood-voices, vespering, fall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Immersed in the deep of my dim sylvan-bower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upborne on the breast of its emerald tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I drift with the gleam of the vanishing hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Afar⁠—where my uttermost longings abide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pendulum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pendulum</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have swung to the uttermost reaches of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid the echo of sighs, and a deluge of rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah! I rebound to the limits of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the rapturous swing of an infinite kiss.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="deluge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Deluge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A whisper at twilight, a sigh through the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A strain of soft music, a perfume so light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will sweep as a feather the bulwark of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To surges of rapture, or rivers of tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="retrospect" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Retrospect</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love’s kisses spurned so long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dead as the years, that o’er them flow;⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, my gilded treasuries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would I might give⁠—for memories.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="glamour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Glamour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O come while youth’s bright rosy veil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beguiles your eyes and mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let’s tread the asphodel of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And drink life’s magic wine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon time will rend the gossamer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To wisdom’s cruelty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While we are blind, my love, be kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For soon, too soon, we see!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Return</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Again we meet⁠—a flashing glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, to scabbard, goes the lance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While thoughts troop on in cavalcade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adown the wide aisles time has made.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Back in the glow of yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tender troth you rode away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sheen of rainbows in our eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That swept the rim of other skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now a writhing worm am I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath a doomed love’s lensing eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me but stagger, far from sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hide my anguish, in the night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="loves-tendril" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love’s Tendril</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sweeter far than lyric rune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is my baby’s cooing tune;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brighter than the butterflies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the gleams within her eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Firmer than an iron band</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Serves the zephyr of her hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deeper than the ocean’s roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sounds her heart-beat in my soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-little-dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Little Dreams</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I’m folding up my little dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within my heart tonight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And praying I may soon forget</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The torture of their sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For time’s deft fingers scroll my brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With fell relentless art⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m folding up my little dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tonight, within my heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
